## What is Yelp?
Yelp is a one-stop platform for consumers to discover, connect, and transact with local businesses. With it, users can join a waitlist, make a reservation, schedule an appointment, or purchase goods easily. Yelp also provides information, photos, and reviews about local businesses.

The user provides the name of a place or its GPS location, and the system finds places that are nearby. The user can also upload their opinions on this platform in the form of text, pictures, or ratings for a place they visited. Other location-based services include Foursquare and Google Nearby.

Services based on proximity servers are helpful in finding nearby attractions such as restaurants, theaters, or recreational sites. Designing such a system is challenging because we have to efficiently find all the possible places in a given radius with minimum latency. This means that we have to narrow down all the locations in the world, which could be in the billions, and only pinpoint the relevant ones.


## Functional requirements
The functional requirements of our systems are below:

- User accounts: Users will have accounts where they’re able to perform different functionalities like log in, log out, add, delete, and update places’ information.

  Note: There can be two types of users: business owners who can add their places on the platform and other users who can search, view, and give a rating to a place.

- Search: The users should be able to search for nearby places or places of interest based on their GPS location (longitude, latitude) and/or the name of a place.

- Feedback: The users should be able to add a review about a place. The review can consist of images, text, and a rating.

## Non-functional requirements
The non-functional requirements of our systems are:

- High availability: The system should be highly available to the users.

- Scalability: The system should be able to scale up and down, depending on the number of requests. The number of requests can vary depending on the time and number of days. For example, there are usually more searches made at lunchtime than at midnight. Similarly, during tourist season, our system will receive more requests as compared to in other months of the year.

- Consistency: The system should be consistent for the users. All the users should have a consistent view of the data regarding places, reviews, and images.

- Performance: Upon searching, the system should respond with suggestions with minimal latency.

