## Functional requirements
The system should suggest top N (let’s say top ten) frequent and relevant terms to the user based on the text a user types in the search box.

## Non-functional requirements

### Low latency: 
The system should show all the suggested queries in real time after a user types. The latency shouldn’t exceed 200 ms. A study suggests that the average time between two keystrokes is 160 milliseconds. So, our time-budget of suggestions should be greater than 160 ms to give a real-time response. This is because if a user is typing fast, they already know what to search and might not need suggestions. At the same time, our system response should be greater than 160 ms. However, it should not be too high because in that case, a suggestion might be stale and less useful.

### Fault tolerance: 
The system should be reliable enough to provide suggestions despite the failure of one or more of its components.

### Scalability: 
The system should support the ever-increasing number of users over time.

## Resource estimation
### Storage estimation
Assuming that out of the 3.5 billion queries per day, two billion queries are unique and need to be stored. 
Let’s also assume that each query consists of 15 characters on average, and each character takes 2 Bytes of storage. 
According to this formulation, we would require the following:

2 billion * 15 * 2 = 60 GB to store all the queries made in a day.

Storage required per year: 60GB/day×365=21.9TB/year

### Bandwidth estimation
3.5 billion queries will reach our system every day. Assume that each query a user types is 15 characters long on average.

Keeping this in mind, the total number of reading requests of characters per day would be as follows:

15×3.5 billion = 52.5 billion characters per day.

Total read requests per second: 52.5B/86400≈0.607M characters/sec. 86,400 is the number of seconds per day.

Since each character takes 2 Bytes, the bandwidth our system would need is as follows:

0.607M×2×8=9.7Mb/sec

9.7Mb/sec is the incoming bandwidth requirement for queries that have a maximum length of 15 characters. 
Our system would suggest the top ten queries that are roughly of the same length as the query length after each character a user types.
Therefore, the outgoing bandwidth requirement would become the following: 15×10×9.7Mb/sec=1.46Gb/sec.

## Building blocks we will use

**Databases** are required to keep the data related to the queries’ prefixes.
**Load balancers** are required to disseminate incoming queries among a number of active servers.
**Caches** are used to keep the top N suggestions for fast retrieval.
 
 
 


