# Logging in a distributed system
In today’s world, an increasing number of designs are moving to microservice architecture instead of monolithic architecture. In microservice architecture, logs of each microservice are accumulated in the respective machine. If we want to know about a certain event that was processed by several microservices, it is difficult to go into every node, figure out the flow, and view error messages. But, it becomes handy if we can trace the log for any particular flow from end to end.

Moreover, it is also not necessary that a microservice is deployed on only one node. It can be deployed on thousands of nodes. 

In real world production environment, there would be running so many of machines containing hundreds of containers that can be terminated, restarted, or rescheduled at any point in time. This is the nature containerisation of the system is a challenge in itself and better think about how to obtain application logs that not to be lost.

Kubernetes architecture provide a number of ways to manage application logs. Some of them approaches to consider are:

Native mode: Run the kubectl logs command to directly view the local logs or use the log driver of Docker Engine to redirect logs to files, syslog, or Fluentd.
DaemonSet mode: A log agent is deployed on every Kubernetes node. The log agent collects the container logs and sends them to the server.
SideCar mode: A Pod runs a SideCar log agent container to collect logs generated by the primary container in the Pod.
