## Question 1
How does Kafka scale its brokers, topics, producers, and consumers?

Topics: Kafka scales topics by spreading them over many partitions. Each partition can be placed on a separate broker.

Producers: By having multiple partitions of a topic, Kafka producers can publish a huge number of messages to that topic. Multiple producers can publish messages on the same topic.

Consumers: Kafka scales consumers by partition such that each consumer gets its share of partitions. A consumer can have more than one partition, but a partition can only be used by one consumer in a consumer group at a time.

Broker: Adding or removing brokers is very easy. Whenever a new broker is added or removed, Kafka rebalances topic partitions. Kafka tries to distribute leaders and followers of a partition on separate brokers.

## Question 2
How does Kafka ensure fault-tolerance and reliability of controller broker, topic partition leader, and ZooKeeper?

Broker & Partition: Kafka is designed in such a way that a broker failure is detectable by ZooKeeper and other brokers in the cluster. Because each topic can have multiple followers running on different brokers, the cluster can recover from any broker failures and continue to work without any disruption of service.

Controller & Leader: Whenever a controller broker or a partition leader stops, ZooKeeper detects the failure and initiates a new leader election.

ZooKeeper: Since all the critical information is stored in the ZooKeeper, and it replicates this data across its cluster, ZooKeeper’s failure does not affect the state of the Kafka cluster. Kafka will restore the state, once the ZooKeeper restarts after failure.

## Question 3
What message-delivery guarantees does Kafka provide to producers?

Hide Answer
Kafka provides three types of message delivery guarantees to producers:

Async: Producer sends a message to Kafka and does not wait for an acknowledgment from the server.
Committed to Leader: Producer waits for an acknowledgment from the partition leader.
Committed to Leader and Quorum: Producer waits for an acknowledgment from the partition leader and the full set of in-sync replicas.

## Question 4
What message-delivery guarantees does Kafka provide to consumers?

Kafka provides three types of message delivery guarantees to consumers:

At-most-once: Messages may be lost but are never redelivered.
At-least-once: Messages are never lost but may be redelivered.
Exactly-once: Each message is delivered once and only once.

## Question 5
How does Kafka ensure consistency as far as message delivery is concerned?

Hide Answer
To ensure data consistency, leader brokers never return messages which have not been replicated to a minimum set of in-sync replicas (ISR). Brokers keep track of the high-water mark offset, which is the largest offset that a minimum set of ISRs of a particular partition share.

## Question 6
How does Kafka ensure durability?

Kafka ensures durability by replicating messages across multiple brokers, as well as storing them on the disk.

## Question 7
How Kafka manages high throughput for consumers?

Hide Answer
By using consumer groups, consumers can be parallelized, so that multiple consumers can read from multiple partitions on a topic, allowing a very high message processing throughput.

## Question 8
How does Kafka manage high availability?

Hide Answer
Each topic partition can have multiple replicas (called followers). If the leader of a partition stops, a follower can take over to make the partition available.

If a broker dies, Kafka distributes its partitions to other available brokers.

If the controller broker dies, ZooKeeper initiates a leader election to choose a new controller broker.

## Question 9
How does Kafka throttle its producers and consumers?

Hide Answer
Kafka throttles its clients using quotas, which are byte-rate thresholds defined per client-ID. A client-ID logically identifies an application making a request. A single client-ID can span multiple producer and consumer instances. The quota is applied for all instances as a single entity. When the broker calculates that a client has exceeded its quota, it slows the client down by holding back the response to the client for enough time to keep the client under the quota.

## Question 10
How does Kafka perform failover for consumers within a consumer group?

If a consumer in a consumer group dies, the partitions assigned to that consumer are distributed to the remaining consumers in that group.

## Question 11
How does Kafka perform failover for brokers?

If a broker dies, Kafka divides up the leadership of its topic partitions to the remaining brokers in the cluster.
